#summary How to have cutting edge mono on FreeBSD
#labels Featured

= BSD# Branches =

The BSD# Team maintain various branches for various mono versions in the BSD# repository:

|| *Path* || *Mono Version* || *Status* || *Maintained* ||
|| `/branches/bsd-sharp-releng-2.0` || 2.0.1 ||Outdated|| No ||
|| `/branches/bsd-sharp-releng-2.2` || 2.2 || Outdated || No ||
|| `/branches/bsd-sharp-releng-2.4` || 2.4.2.1 || Pending ([http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/query-pr.cgi?pr=ports/136675 ports/136675]) || Yes ||
|| `/trunk` || 2.4.2.1 || N/A || Yes ||

Each branch contains a partial ports tree (only ports related to mono and possibly patches for `Mk/*` files are available) and are *not intended to replace the FreeBSD ports tree* but rather merged into it.

To ease this, a merge tool named _portshaker_ has been developed by the BSD# Team, and is available in the download section (or in the BSD# repository).

= Tracking a BSD# branch =

Okay, you are curious and whant to see what will be available later on FreeBSD _now_? Or maybe you want to run the bleeding edge mono? Here is ow to setup and maintain your merged FreeBSD ports tree.

== Install _portshaker_ ==

Either downlaod and extract a tarball from the download section or checkout the code using the following command:
{{{
svn co "http://bsd-sharp.googlecode.com/svn/branches/portshaker/"
}}}

Then build and install _portshaker_:
{{{
make DESTDIR="/usr/local"
sudo make DESTDIR="/usr/local" install
}}}

For convenience, _portshaker_ ships with example configuration files for tracking the `trunk`, where the porting effort is concentrated. Install the examples running:
{{{
make -C examples DESTDIR="/usr/local" install
}}}

The default configuration file should fit your needs, but you can cuustomise if: `/usr/local/etc/portshaker.conf`.

== Update your ports ==

Updating your FreeBSD ports tree, your copy of the BSD# repository and meging them is as easy as running _portshaker_:

{{{
portshaker
}}}

The default behaviour is to update and merge all configured ports tree.


== Updating you ports ==

Since the BSD# ports tree is merged into the FreeBSD ports tree, you can update your ports the usual way (using _portupgrade_ for example).